# Introduction 
Having poor people is unethical and unfair. It is also dangerous for the country's future. The Philippines' rapid population growth has contributed to the country's growing poverty. The effects of poverty are visible in the nature of the Philippines.
Many people do not go to school due to the financial problems they face. Others seem to be content with their lives as poor. Consequently, the Philippines' poverty is anticipated to rise as a result of the corona virus outbreak. This will result in lower consumption growth and additional revenue losses. 
As a result, stronger measures are needed to combat poverty in the Philippines in the face of the pandemic, which has disproportionately affected the poor. With more than 16 percent of the population living in poverty, the Philippines have a pretty high poverty rate. About 17.6 million Filipinos are unable to afford basic necessities due to the large number of people who rely on agriculture for a living and wealth inequality. 
Poverty decreased from 21.6 percent to 16.6 percent between 2015 and 2020. President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines wants to reduce poverty to 14% by 2022. The Philippine government's AmBisyon 2040 initiative aims to eliminate extreme poverty by 2040. Furthermore, the government has adopted a number of programs and reforms aimed at reducing poverty, particularly in the areas of education, healthcare, and the economy as a whole.
Here are five ways the program is helping the Philippines combat poverty: :Greater Access to Education, Greater Access to Healthcare, Family Aid, Economic Improvement, and lastly, Build, Build, Build, the Duterte administration created the “Build, Build, Build” infrastructure plan in 2017. The initial goal of the program was to complete 75 projects, but Duterte revised the plan to instead target finishinh 100 project.

# Problem Statement
 
# Significance of the study
This study tells the benefits and importance of the researchers' eagerness to conduct this study. It is benefits to the Filipino people, government, academe, the researchers, and the future researchers. This study will benefit the following.
To the students. Students are basically one of the top three biggest beneficiary of this study. As poverty continue to arise from time to time and decreasing rate of kids going to school, the researchers' came to an idea to provide scholarship to the students with inclination to studying but do not have the money to afford the tuition fees provided from the taxes of SME's given and helped by the government.
To the filipino workers. The success of a filipino worker is a success of the government. As government help provide job, high rate of employment will rise and high taxes will be collected.
To the owner of small, medium  enterprise. As the economy rise, the demand and supply also rise. We have seen big malls continue to succeed so the researchers' with the help of the government fund to decrease the rising rate of poverty will help provide SME's  to the target respondents.
To the government. It will provide information that will help the Government specifically Philippine Government which is the location of the research. Right knowledge and data of which specific sector needed the most help from the government will reflect to the good governance of a specific municipality. It will also provide higher income in the long run from the taxes of each sectors they helped, may it be from the businesses or from the taxes of employees covered from Philippines new TRAIN law.
To the academe. The success of this research is the success of the academe. Researchers have the great support from the university including the library resources and the instructors. The academe may use this research as a guide in teaching the next researchers.
To the researchers. The researchers' will be benifited by this study as it is a great opportunity once this study succed and will help a lot of filipino people and the increasing rate of poverty in the Philippines.
To the future researchers. It will help them to formulate another study that is related to this topic. They can also identify the strengths as well as the weaknesses of this study in order to improve, develop, and emphasize those weaknesses in formulating an accurate conclusions or possible problem solutions for this topic.

# Methods

# Expected outcome
Targeting the education first to resolve the poverty owning to the fact that one of the main reason for today’s tragedy and often comes from generation prior that also lacked of schooling and some adolescent who experience poverty is unable to read or do mathematics. By properly educating the new generation, poverty rate could reduce significantly. Here’s a few that can be focus to educate the new generation: Health, Mortality rate, and Income and economic growth.
Providing the materials needed in school/s foe each student and making sure that the child is enroll even if it was in rural areas, by having education we can provide a skilled people that help the economic growth prior to that it can bring more opportunities for employment. 
Achieving the affordable and good quality of rice is help to local farmers to stabilize the production doing that by investing to agriculture it would help the farmers to produce more. 
The connection between economic growth and poverty are creating more opportunities and income growth, one of the solution to resolve the problem from poverty is to increase the minimum salary wage, but other tools such as earned income tax credits might be suited.
